---
layout: post
title: "Using .wer Files as Evidence of Execution"
date: 2024-07-21
categories: [Security, Windows]
tags: [Windows, Security]
---

## Introduction to .wer Files

Windows Error Reporting (WER) files are automatically generated when applications crash or encounter significant errors in Windows operating systems. These files provide a wealth of information that can be invaluable for forensic investigators and incident responders. Originally, WER files were created to collect debugging information related to hardware or software errors and send it to Microsoft for analysis. This helps improve the stability and performance of Windows by enabling Microsoft to identify and address common issues through updates and hotfixes.

## Why .wer Files Over Other Artifacts?

While there are many artifacts that can provide evidence of application execution, .wer files offer distinct advantages, especially in cases where running a 32-bit program on a 64-bit system leads to application crashes. As [Proneer discusses](http://forensic-proof.com/archives/4358?ckattempt=3), .wer files stand out as robust evidence due to several key details contained within them:

### Given Path and Name

The .wer file provides the exact path and name of the application that crashed. This information is crucial for identifying the specific program involved in the crash, allowing investigators to trace the origin of the application and understand its context within the system.

### File Creation Date in UTC

The `TargetAppVer` field in the .wer file includes the file creation date in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). This allows investigators to pinpoint the exact time of the application's execution and subsequent crash. Accurate timestamping is essential for building a timeline of events and correlating the crash with other system activities.

### Loaded Modules at Execution

The list of loaded modules at the time of the crash provides insights into what activities the application might have performed. This includes identifying the libraries and resources the application was using, which can offer clues about potential malicious behavior or conflicts with other software components. The presence of unexpected or suspicious modules can indicate that the application was compromised or engaged in unauthorized actions.


